The current exhibition at the Fry Art Gallery Too, Lithographic Fever (to 31st October 2021), features several works published by St Georges Gallery Prints.  This was a small firm owned by Robert Erskine or, to use his rightful title, the Honourable Robert Erskine.  Nor are lithographs the only publications by St Georges Gallery Prints in the Frys collection, others include the etchings of George Chapmans Rhondda Suite and Michael Rothensteins linocuts of sailing boats.
Robert Erskine himself has been credited with a revival in British printmaking, taking it out of the shabby 1950s and setting it on the road for the Pop Art boom of the 1960s.  Matching this reputation, theres a picture of him taken in the St Georges Gallery Prints shop, for a 1962 profile in the Studio magazine, in which he looks every inch the beat impresario, from his trimmed beard to his pointed shoes.  So who was Erskine and whats a fair assessment of his achievement?
Erskine opened St Georges Gallery Prints in 1954.  His shop was a tiny space, tucked at the back of an art bookshop in Cork Street.  But though small, it was significant  the only dedicated print retailer to have opened in the West End of London since the war.
Starting the gallery was Erskines first professional project.  He had only just graduated from Cambridge, where he had studied archaeology.  Before Cambridge, his school days had been spent at Eton, a reflection of his aristocratic background.  Indeed, he claimed descent from Scottish kings as well as the Hervey family, owners of Ickworth House in Suffolk.  As far as St Georges Gallery Prints was concerned, such family circumstances were more than just coincidental.  It was Erskines private income that allowed the firm to ride out a financial situation that was never less than challenging.
However, it was Robert Erskines energy  as much as his money  that was plentiful.  He was soon publishing as well as retailing prints and he introduced the idea of the suite, a set of prints on a particular subject and in a particular medium (the concept borrowed from Picassos etchings for the dealer Ambroise Vollard).  His roster of printmakers quickly included some of the leading names in British art, such as John Piper, Joseph Herman, Ceri Richards and Julian Trevelyan.  Two years after opening the gallery  and to encourage people to see prints as original works rather than reproductions  he commissioned a film, Artists Proof, in which six artists each demonstrated the creation of a picture using a different print technique.  The film was shown alongside the main feature at the Academy Cinema in Oxford Street, though sadly it is now unavailable in the UK.