One of the most immediately recognized artworks, the Japanese wave painting Under The Great Wave off Kanagawa has been shaking up the art world for two centuries and continues to stay in the center of focus of contemporary visual arts and design.
It was created by Hokusai Katsushika, one of the greatest Japanese painters and printmakers of the 19th century, as a part of his series titled 36 famous views of Mount Fuji, a sacred mountain in Japan. The print was initially created by Hokusai around 1830, but the publishing date is 1832. It is created as a woodblock print, using the traditional Japanese ukiyo-e technique.
The work itself speaks a lot about the position of Japan during times of isolation, as well as the influence of Western ideas on the development of a traditional Japanese society and its philosophy. Even though Japan opened its ports for foreign visitors only in 1859, this work contained usage of a distinctive and special European color, the Prussian blue, which means that some kind of cultural exchange existed even during the 1830s. 
After opening the ports, this work quickly became famous and exported to Europe and America, where it was celebrated by famous artists like Van Gogh, Whistler and Monet. It even influenced Debussy's symphonic sketches titled La Mer.
Besides being popular during Modernism, this artwork still influences many contemporary artists and designers, where it became something like a brand, a work famous for being famous, immediately recognized and celebrated, sometimes possibly without even questioning the reason for it. It also influenced many street artists who paint the walls of the entire planet with this well-known image.
The woodblock shows an extraordinary skillfulness of the artist in working with the traditional Japanese ukiyo-e woodblock print technique, which requires carving wooden blocks one by one, for each color used. It has to be created precisely and with patience, by carving an image to a woodblock with sharp tools, and then covering the raised areas with ink, while also pressing the block against a sheet of paper.
One of the reasons for the success of The Great Wave in Japan was that it was printed in a new and exotic color, unknown to Japan prior to this work. It had a distinctive saturated hue, it was synthetic and obviously imported from Europe, since we recognize it today as the Prussian or Berlin blue. This opens up new discussions about the way that Japan was connected to the rest of the planet in this moment of history.